---
title: "India and Serendipity"
date: 2022-09-20T13:00:00+05:30
tags: ["introspection"]
---

Few weeks ago, someone pointed out to me that India is the fifth largest economy in the world right now surpassing U.K. They asked me how do I feel about it and I thought a one word response would not do justice hence this blog post

It's been six years since I have moved out of India and a lot has happened since then. More globalisation, rapid economic growth and huge infrastructure projects and so the gap between rich and poor. The cost of living in a metropolitan city like Hyderabad or Bangalore is almost equivalent to Amsterdam or Paris. Huge skyscrapers, ultra modern residential apartments and consumerism at its finest. Even the income standards are on par with top western societies. Reading this words, I should be happy that we are moving in the right direction and I partially am but If I have to speak honestly, I am not. Infact, I am more afraid about this rapid growth more than ever

For my fellow Indians, Everytime you go to a nice cafe sitting on their porch enjoying the view (or) traveling in your modern luxorious vehice, I am sure you might have encountered multiple occasions of women and men with on their bare feet in the scorching sun, sometimes carrying their crying baby and sometimes physically disabled either knocking on your vehicle door or looking at you with an aspiration that you might have some sort of spare change which you can afford to give it to them. That might be just a round off to you but for them, it's worth meals for 1-2 days. I am not guilt tripping anyone and there's no need to be because we grew accustomed to these scene since growing up and we are trained to turn a blind eye towards most of them because there's a limit on how much we can help too. After all, It's such a big country where still 60% of the country lives below poverty line

So, along with staggering economic growth, we are also observing a striking difference in rich (vs) poor. Rich getting richer and poor becoming poorer due to increased standard of living. For most of them, there's no social net to fall back on. They scape whatever is left of the end of food chain and sometimes it comes empty. And I am not just talking about poverty you see on the roads or streets but also the poverty who are dressed in comfortable clothes but their stomachs are burning with hunger and their hearts filled in melancholy. I call this invisible poverty.

My mom tries her best to support bunch of those families around her in her means and in the last 24 hours, I have experienced 2 occasions of what's invisible poverty looks like. A widowed mother who goes home to home to clean dishes every day to earn just 120 euro per month only to be tormented and harassed by her 16 year old school for his drinking habits and A father where his son is diagnosed with severe intellectual disabilities along with bipolar but without any resources or knowledge on how to get treatment for his sun on a salary of 150 euro per month.

And when this gap is pushed hard enough, people might start to see a blur betweeen morality which keeps our civilisation stable. My brother was telling me that the crime rate in Nellore has increased two fold since last few years and most of the occasions has been attributed to some sort of this invisible poverty

I guess now you can see why I have such a hard time responding to that question. This is not yet another random post where I highlight problems, come up with solutions as If no one is not smart enough to do that before. The problem is simple but the solutions are complex, local to geographic boundaries and requires multiple institutions and bodies to come and work together for a very long period of time without expecting anything in return. All I ask is if you are in a position where you can spare some of your wealth or income to others such that they can live a comfortable people, please don't hesitate. You don't need to go out and start donating money to homeless or beggars, you can start it in your own backyard. Look around you. The maid who comes to clean your house who cannot pay her rent, The watchman who cannot afford his children education. All you need is to pay attention and it's serendipitous
